display{
    inline-block,
    block;
    inline,
    none
    
}

float{
    left,
    right,
    both
}

----------------------------Web design------------------------------
Good examples of websites located on Daily UI website. and another website canva.com. 
Lrem Ipsum - lipsum.com - font examples. 

Principles of the Web design
1. Color Theory
2. Typography
3. User Interface design
4. User Experience design

-----------Color Theory--------------
Moods of the color power

Red - flame, love, energy, intensity (example - car, feeling energetic ro intensity of the car)

Yellow - sun, joy, intellect, attention (example - lady in Yellow on a beach, yellow always 
attracts attention, creating the logo or headline is good choice to have yellow)

Green - leaf, freshness, safety, growth (grocery companies)

Blue - water, stability, trust, serenity(to make the customers feeling trust you-payPal, CriptoComponies, banks, 
phsyhologies say that by wearing blue T-shirt for interview is much more trustble for interviewers rather that 
green or other colors.)

Purple - Royalty, Wealth, Femininity

Choosing the colors think what message should your color bring to the customers.

You may use 2 or 3 colors in your web site and combining those colors, you should approach from the 
scientific part of color theory. 
for example 
- to take 2 colors right to each other on the color wheel and this way is called Analogous color palette. So, this color pallet can be rally good for navigation bars and the body of your website, logo and background.
- if you really want your design to pop, you're better of taking two colors from opposite ends of the color wheel creating what's called Complementary Color palette or a Clashing palette. It really brings out each of the colors. (for instance in the supermarket meat is marked with the green paper to attract the attention to the meat, to pop up the meat a lot more and gives you this idea of freshness because of the green). But, what we shouldn't do with clashing colors or complementary colors is to try to style text and text background with it because it actually looks very jarring and you can feel your eyes sort of getting a little bit fuzzy. We need to use this combination in
cases when we wont things to stand our together. 
A good Idea to use Adobe Color or Colorhunt.co websites to choose the colors. 


----------------Typography---------------------------------------

Serif family where they have these little feet at the end of their central beams. And the reason why they have these old feet is because the serif typeface were inspired by the marble carvings of days of yore. it looks like historical font. This font making your design look more serious, more authoritative and also a little bit older as well. design for letterhead for a legal company or a magazine for architectural design. But, we can actually tell how old a type face would look by looking at the difference between the thickest and the thinnest parts of each 
letter.  So compare the Old Style 'o' versus the modern 'o'. The difference between the thickest part of the letter and the thinnest part gets more and more exaggerated as you get towards a more modern font. So, if you want something that looks authoritative but modern then maybe you want to go for a modern serif typeface like Didot. 
But, if you want it to come across as a little bit older, a little bit more aged maybe you have a winery, maybe you want to go for an Old Style serif instead. Now just sa different colors have different moods and emotions, different fonts also convey a different message to a user depending of which one you choose. 

-Different fonts have different moods.
Serif - Traditional(MinionPro), Stable(Trajan), Respectable(Baskerville)
Sans-Serif - Sensible(Helvetica), Simple(Avenir), Straightforward(Din)
Script - Personal(Freestyle Script), Creative(Adios Script Pro), Elegant(Snell Raundhand)
Display - Friendly(Vag Rounded), Loud(Gin), Amusing(Thirsty Rough)
Modern - Stylish(Sackers Gothic), Chic(Gotham), Smart(Futura)

-Try to keep not more that 2 fonts in one design
-Try to find similar moods to each other in the fonts.
-Try to keep the same age for the fonts, if ancient-keep both ancient, if modern keep both modern. 

--------Whole text for Font Section--------------------------
All right.

The next topic I want to talk about is typography.

Now, I know a lot of students always say to me,

"But why do I need to learn about typography?

I just open up Word, click the dropdown,

find Times New Roman,

my favorite font,

and then just put that on everything. It's done, right?"

Well let's think about this.

Now, let's say it's Valentine's Day and you decide that you want to write a letter to your beloved Valentine

and you change the font to something cursive like this.

"You'll always be mine."

I don't know if she or he will be

but you have a good chance.

Now let's say that you chose the wrong font.

That's a bit of a problem.

Not only do I not think your Valentine is going to take very kindly to this,

you might also have the police on your back which is a bit of a problem.

So fonts really do matter and it's important to consider not only their mood but also how to combine

different fonts,

and it's a really, really easy way to make your designs look very professional and really slick. Out of

all of the fonts in the world,

there's pretty much two large families that you should really know about.

One is the Serif family where they have these little feet at the end of their central beams.

And the reason why they have these old feet is because the serif typeface were inspired by the marble

carvings of days of yore.

So if you next go out and you take a look at the buildings around you especially if you're in a historical

area, take a look at places where they've carved into stone or marble and you'll notice that they also

have these little feet at the end of the central beams.

So why is that?

I don't know how many of you carved marble in your spare time but if you did you would know that once

you chisel has gone into the Rock and you need to exit your engraving it's actually not possible to

create 90 degree angles when you're carving into rock.

So this is where the serif typeface gets their inspiration from.

And this is also the reason why when you're choosing a serif typeface you're making your design look

more serious, more authoritative and also a little bit older as well.

So it's really good if you're designing something like a letterhead for a legal company or a magazine

for architectural design.

But when we take a look at the big family of serif typefaces

they're actually further subdivided into smaller sub-families like Old style, Transitional, Modern and

Slab-Serif.

Now the really interesting thing is you can actually tell how old a typeface would look by looking at

the difference between the thickest and the thinnest parts of each letter.

So compare the Old Style 'o' versus the Transitional

'o' versus the modern

'o'. And look at how that difference between the thickest part of the letter and the thinnest part gets

more and more exaggerated as you get towards a more modern font.

So if you want something that looks authoritative but modern then maybe you want to go for a modern

serif typeface like Didot. But if you want it to come across as a little bit older, a little bit more aged

maybe you have a winery, maybe you want to go for an Old Style serif instead.

Now just as different colors have different moods and emotions, different fonts also have different moods

and they also convey a different message to a user depending on which one you choose.

So the serif family generally come across as traditional, stable, respectable, authoritative,

these are the words that get thrown around by designers when they're thinking about the serif typeface.

So for example, the next time you go to a magazine rack pick up the Vogue magazine.

Take a look at their title and see how it's a modern serif typeface.

It's got hugely exaggerated difference between the thick and thin parts of the lettering and it looks

authoritative and it knows what it is talking about.

Now on the other hand, if we think about the Sans-Serifs, they're kind of a different family, because instead

of having the serifs or the little feet at the end the central beams, they have perfect right angles.

And it's this right angle that makes the sans-serif family look so much more friendly, more approachable,

more novel and more contemporary.

So for example, you will tend to get words like sensible, simple, straightforward. And this is why a lot

of startups love using the sans-serif typeface in their websites.

For example, a Humanist typeface which is a sub-family of the sans-serif. It's something that is known

as a highly readable typeface. And in fact, even within the serifs and the sans-serifs, you will tend to

see designers going for the sans-serifs if they want to write body text which needs to be more legible

and more readable.

Now within this sub family, there's even differences in terms of legibility and readability.

So how easy are the words to read and how pleasant is it to read the letters.

There was a really interesting study done by MIT a few years back where they took two groups of users,

one they put them into a car which had a dashboard made of a Humanist typeface and the other car had

a dashboard which had a Grotesque sans-serif typeface. And what they did is they tracked the pupils of

the people who were driving the cars and they tested how long each driver needed to look down at the

dashboard before they got enough information from the speedometer or the odometer and before they could

come back and look at the road again. And really surprisingly they found that just by changing the font

from a Grotesque sans-serif to a Humanist sans-serif, they could save the drivers somewhere around

30 to 40 percent of the time that's required to understand the information.

So imagine that car is on a freeway that's driving at 60 miles, 100 miles an hour.

That difference in the amount of time the user needs to look down at the dashboard could be the difference

between life and death.

And as designers, we rarely get to make that kind of difference in the world, right?

So knowing that the Humanist typeface, all of the fonts that belong in that category like Gill Sans,

Tahoma, Verdana, these are highly readable and highly legible fonts which you can use in the body types

for example of your sales pitch.

Now, even though we're not saving lives with our sales pitches,

if you manage to get the user to read through more of your sales copy then they're probably going to

be more convinced and more likely to buy your product

right?

So readability and legibility when you're choosing fonts is incredibly important. And the things that

you're looking for in the letters when you're looking for legibility are open shapes and a lot of space

between each of the letters and also the forms look unambiguous so they look different

for example here the 'g' and the 9 actually look different on the second line. And finally, varying proportions.

So having an 'O' that's very wide and a '0' that's a bit more narrow so you can actually tell the difference

between the two.

Now while we've talked about using fonts, it's often that you see people go a bit overboard where they

choose 10 fonts in the same design and that makes your design look very cluttered and very unprofessional.

I recommend actually sticking to just two fonts in one design.

So if you're making a poster keeping that to two fonts. If you're making a section of your website keeping

then again to two fonts. It just looks a lot cleaner and a lot tighter.

And when you're combining these two different fonts you want to try to go for similar moods. So find

fonts that have a similar mood to each other and also a similar time era.

You don't want something that looks ultramodern with something that looks like it's from the days of

yore combined together, it looks a little bit weird.

Now the things you want to contrast are the Serif-ness.

So for example you on the heading to be a serif and the body to be a sans-serif or the opposite way

round. It just creates more interest in your design.

And similarly, you can also create interest by just changing up the weights between the heading and the

body. So making the heading really really bold or even using a black typeface and making the body text

using something like thin or regular or light. These different weights can create contrast in your design.

Now if you don't remember anything from this talk on typefaces, I just want you to look at these six

fonts and try to wipe them from your memory because it is very very difficult to make these designs

look good, unless I guess, if you're running a lemonade stand.

But if you want to look professional, if you want to look "designed", try to use one of the other fonts that

we've talked about and try to ignore these ones which are difficult to read and have moods that are

difficult to fit in in a professional setting.

The next time you're designing a website think about what typefaces you're going to choose.

Think about what you're trying to convey with those typefaces and then pick a font from the sans-serif

or the serif family and maybe try to combine them,

so you have a heading that's a sans-serif and a body that's a serif and try to create contrast in your

designs.

So keep this in mind and hopefully they'll make your designs a lot more interesting and a lot more professional.

-----------------User Interface Design----------------------------------

1. Size - We first mention bigger, bolder squarer of things. As designer, we can use this knowledge define Hierarchy.

2. Layout - it's good practice create more interest by creating a block of text and then interspersed with pictures and then create some different sizes and different shapes and different hierarchies. 
It's not a good idea to make to long strings or to have too short strings, but it's good habit to have about 34 characters per line and around 6 words per line, making it the most comfortable line length for the eye to read. 
good idea to have the sentences not bigger that 57 characters and not less that 18 characters per line. 

3. Alignment - keep the items aligned, for instance it's better to have heading on one line, rather than to shift part of the text to another line. 
- Try to reduce the number of the lines and keep it more clear having less lines on the page. 

4. White Space - keeping more space around the items makes the design a lot more minimalist and at the same time elevate it. 

5. Audience - that is probably the most important. A lot of things we've talked about including not using comic-sans, it really depends on your audience. for instance having the children party it's a good idea to have multicolored and funny fonts rather than have black and strict, serious black fonts and background. When we design the website we should design for the audience, even if it's something a little bit messier, a little bit bolder in terms of color, as long as it fits your audience and that's perfectly fine.  


----------Whole text for interface design---------------------------
So now that we've talked about some of the fundamentals of design like Color Theory and Typography, the

next thing I want to talk about is User Interface Design.

Now take a look at this picture,

in most cases, 99% of you would have read "YOUR EYES HERE" first, "then here" then

"Isn't that fascinating?"

So this is just a way that our brains work.

We're always drawn to the bigger bolder squarer of things.

And As designers, we can use this knowledge to define Hierarchy. So let's say that you were to write a

birthday invite to Jane.

You could write it like this, but all of the information has equal weighting.

So as a reader, I have to go through the entire paragraph and I can't just skim through it to get the

important bits.

So it's going take me a lot longer

right? Now on the other hand if I apply the rules of hierarchy then the most important information gets

conveyed over first and I make sure that Jane actually knows whose birthday party it is, where it is

and when they should go.

So we can establish hierarchy in a number of ways.

The most obvious is through the use of color.

So colors that really pop and stand out and have contrast with that background tend to be used for high

hierarchy.

So for example in this case if all the colors were the same, then it feels like they all have equal importance.

But on the other hand, if we have something that's very bright very standoutish versus something that's

a bit more grayed, a bit more muted, then we know exactly where our eyes will go to first.

Now if you take a look at this example, this is the ASOS website, and their predominant color palette

is the sort of gray and white color. But they've really cleverly used their accent tone, this green and

red, to really tell the user what they think you should really look at.

And it seems like ASOS really cares that you know that they have an outlet and also that you add your

product to the bag so that they can actually make money off you.

So, in this case, they're using that green accent tone to really pull the eyes to that button and make sure

that the user actually completes their transaction. Now in addition to color, you should also think about

size because as I said, the bigger items often draw your eyes to it.

So, for example, if you look at the Coinbase website which you can use to buy cryptocurrency, we can see

the first thing they want to tell you is you can use this website to "Buy and sell cryptocurrency."

Now the next biggest thing on the page is this huge email input and a button that says, "Get started".

So because a lot of these companies run ads and they're paying for users to land on their page, it's really

important for them to capture the emails.

This is kind of what this design is representing,

right?

As long as you land on this page, you're probably going to want to look at this place where you put in

your email address and get started so that the company can capture your information.

Now in addition to establishing hierarchy, in terms of User Interface, you should think about the Layout

of your website.

You can of course, on one hand, have this big block of text which is just your website where everything

is all laid out in the same kind of way

or you can create more interest by creating a block of text and then interspersed with pictures and

then create some different sizes and different shapes and different hierarchies to make your design

look more interesting. Now the Wikipedia pages are an example in bad design because just look at how bland

it looks.

It really is trying to be an encyclopedia but it doesn't have to be like this. Now

one of the most noticeable things about Wikipedia is just the length of each block of text.

Just look at how long each line of text is.

It's very hard for a user to keep their eyes tracking along the same line.

And in fact, in terms of User Interface Design, there's an optimal line length. Too long and it gets a

little bit tedious to read, but too short it feels a bit too choppy and it's a bit awkward to read.

So you want to aim for something around 40 to 60 characters per line so that it feels comfortable to

the user and they'll be able to get through the information and still be interested in your website.

Now when you have good layout like Grammarly's website, it's not only interesting but it also chops

up the content into smaller pieces so that you actually get through more of the website and you take

more of it in.

Now another thing I want to talk about is Alignment.

This has to do with how you position each of the elements on the screen relative to each other.

So take a look at the example on the left. The top title is center-aligned whereas the body text is

left-aligned. And it makes it look a little bit awkward like they're not really meant to be together.

Now on the right however just by shifting the alignment so that both starting points are the same for

the title and the body, it suddenly looks a lot more consistent and a lot more designed.

Now one of the easiest ways of making any sort of design you create look professional is just to reduce

the number of alignment points.

So let's say that you're creating a slide deck for your next presentation or you're creating a poster

for your birthday party,

take a look at all the things that are on the design and identify a line which goes through the beginning

of each item.

Now if you can reduce the number of lines like we have done here on the right then suddenly the design

looks a lot more coherent, like all the pieces are meant to be together.

And it just looks a lot more professional.

So use these grid lines in your designed to help you visualize where the starting points of each element

is and try to line them all up.

Because even if you do nothing else but just alignment, you can see in this case the left looks a lot

more sloppy and the right looks a lot more designed and more professional. And all that's changed, there's

no change in the color, there's no change in typography, it's just the alignment. Now a really important

concept in all design is White Space. And white space refers to the empty space that's around text or round

your elements.

Now sometimes when I'm on the high street I come across one of these luxury handbag or shoe shops and

I look through the window.

Now here's an experiment,

take a look at this shop that sells handbags, and take a look at this one,

now how much are you willing to pay for a handbag from this shop versus this one?

Now this is really a use case for white space.

A lot of luxury shops, luxury designer stores,

one of their simplest tools is just injecting white space around their products, space things out and it

makes everything suddenly look a lot more expensive. Whereas when you have everything all tightly crammed

together and you have a lot of product on show, it makes it look like it's some sort of discount store.

And the same principle applies when it comes to digital design as well.

Let's say you have an ad for noise cancelling headphones.

If you have loads of things on screen, there's "New!", "Only $20", "100% noise cancellation".

It makes the product look really cheap. Whereas if you injected some white space, all of a sudden it looks

like Apple made it, right? Just by adding that space around each element on the screen

you can make your design a lot more minimalist and at the same time elevate it.

Now the last thing on User Interface Design I want to talk about and probably the most important is

design for your Audience.

A lot of things I've said, including not using comic-sans,

it really depends on your audience.

Let's say you're designing a children's concert poster, the one on the right looks like something that

children might actually want to go to. The one on the left looks a bit like a funeral advertisement.

It's so serious. It's so black and white and it's so severe looking that no child is kind of want to

go to that concert.

So think about your audience.

Think about what would appeal to them and what's important to convey to them. That it's going to be a

fun concert or that it's going to be boring adults who are going to be reading newspapers and some sort

of classical band in the background. When you're designing websites design it for your audience even

if it's something a little bit messier, a little bit bolder in terms of color, as long as it fits your

audience and that's perfectly fine.

So have the flexibility in your design so that you're not just creating one style all the time. You're

creating one style for a particular audience like teenagers who want to buy clothes and you're creating

a different style for people who want to buy and sell cryptocurrency or have a medical website.

So the flexibility in your design skills is really important when it comes to User Interface design.

But keep in mind those five things: hierarchy, layout, alignment, white space and your audience and you'll

be well on the way to creating more beautiful user interfaces for your websites.


--------------User Experience (UX) Design--------------------------------

1. Simplicity - try to avoid to overload your websites with the bunch of links. it's good idea to keep little bit of dialogue, some images, some videos, a little bit of text. it shouldn't be overwhelming. 

2. Consistency - try to keep consistency in your design, for instance having your website with different option's location, may confuse people trying to find the menu they need. 

3. Reading Patterns - one of the most common reading patterns is what's called the F-pattern where the eye starts at the top left of the corner and then it tracks the right and then it flips back again browsing down the left gutter. So you have often things like bullet points or pictures or icons, buttons, they're all on the left. 
Z-pattern - goes from the left to right then zigzagging down all the way the website.

4. All Platform Design - so, we need to adjust desktop computer design for the mobile use option by changing for instance horizontal layout for vertical ones or in opposite way. Try to avoid having so many banners on your website that show up on the mobile version that your content becomes impossible small and don't do it in opposite way too, having extra large text on your mobile devise. So strike a happy medium. 

5. Don't Use YOur Powers for Evil - in the design world, we call these Dark Patterns. So patterns which get a user to perform an action or behavior that is beneficial to the company or the designer but it's not necessarily what the user wants. for instance to hide some of the free space of the hamburger divided on to small peaces and by hiding the middle side of the hamburger you may think that the hamburger is much lager that it is. In website design the example related to this situation might be pushing you to the more expensive way to buy something by marking the text in more visible colors like red or orange. or push the clint to click on your product by putting the small line on the products, which looks like hair on your screen and by tapping by finger you get inside the website and the advertisers make money on each click. Another way to get a mess, to make unclear message in your message, by playing around with the words, what can lead the customer to the misunderstanding. if the customer gets any of the example above, he would never return back to this website. 






--------------------Whole text for User Experience (UX) Design----------------------

Now, so far we've talked about the three pillars of web design: Color Theory, Typography, User Interface

Design and now I want to talk about the last pillar, User Experience Design.

Now a lot of people often get confused about what exactly is UX or User Experience?

And one of the best ways I've heard it explained is through the story of the renovation of a college.

So this is a picture of Reed College in the US and let's just use it as our imaginary backdrop.

So this college decided that it needed to undergo serious renovation. Tearing down the buildings, building

new ones and completely reform the campus.

So they invited this well-known architect who is very respected in his field.

He came and he did a great job with all the buildings and the Provost was really, really happy.

He was like "This looks great,"

but he had one question,

"Hey Mr. Architect, it seems like you've just left lawn across the entire campus, where are all the paths that

people are going to walk on to get between the buildings?" At this point

the architect says "Don't worry. I'll come back in a year and all will be revealed."

So in a year the paths where people need to naturally walk becomes trotted down and the grass gets worn

down revealing these paths that people need.

And it's at this point when the architect actually lays down all the tiles and paves these paths.

So this is kind of the difference between user experience and design. Design

we often think of having an aesthetic, what we think looks good and enforcing that on the user.

Now user experience is meant to be invisible.

If you have a good experience with a website it's meant to be unobtrusive and it just lets you do your

thing and it feels like as if everything is easy and everything is effortless.

So this is what we're aiming for.

And in order to do that we have to think about again five things.

The first is Simplicity. Keeping things simple is always better than making it more complex or more cluttered.

So this is a website called Sina and it's one of the biggest news websites in China.

Now every time I look at it though I get a headache because it is just so dense.

There are so many links and my brain gets overwhelmed and I say "Nope, can't do it."

So take a look at this alternative.

This is Monocle, which is also a news website,

but look at how they've managed to chop up the content, provide some interest for the eyes.

There's a little bit of dialogue, some images, some videos, a little bit of text.

It's never overwhelming.

And with that consistent color scheme and typography, it's really delightful to actually read rather

than this experience of sort of hurting your eyes with design.

This is a much nicer user experience because it's simple.

So whenever you're having to choose, should I make it more complex or should I make it more simple,

always try to pare it down.

The second point is consistency.

Keep your designs consistent but also keep the functionality of your product consistent.

So here's an example,

this is the webpage for Xfinity. Xfinity is a really big communications company in the US and they

are responsible for various things like providing TV and providing internet.

Here are three screenshots from various parts of their website.

One is their home page,

the second is their TV offerings and the last one is their News site.

And if you take a look at the top navigation bar not only do you see that they've changed up the design

of the navigation bar between the different parts of their website,

they also made it work a little bit differently.

The buttons are not all in the same place, the search bar moves around,

and that inconsistency means that a user is going to be confused when they go from one part of the website

to another, having to re-learn how to use your website.

If you think about the target audience of this company Xfinity, a lot of them are going to be a little

bit older, right?

And having this inconsistent functionality and inconsistent design will really make those users have

a bad experience with this website.

Now the next thing to think about when you're designing your website is to take into account people's

Reading patterns.

Now they've looked at how human eyes track a webpage and which parts they look at when they're browsing.

And one of the most common reading patterns is what's called the F-pattern where the eye starts at the

top left of the corner and then it tracks the right and then it flips back again

browsing down the left gutter.

So you have often things like bullet points or pictures or icons, buttons, they're all on the left.

So you can design for this by using the F-layout.

So have the most important parts of your content on the left gutter, have the logo at the top and have

everything follow this pattern.

For example like this website for BigCommerce.

See how the eye is being naturally accommodated going from left to right.

Now another really common pattern for reading is the Z-pattern where our eyes go from left to right and then

zigzagging down all the way the website.

Now this of course depends on the type of website.

So you have something that's more sparse with more video content or if somebody is trying to browse

a website a little bit faster,

you see them using this layout. And this layout is used pretty famously in the Facebook website

using that Z-pattern to accommodate for people's natural reading pattern.

So have a think about this. Have a think about how people naturally looks at the page and place your

content in that pattern to make it easier for people who are using your website.

Now in today's day and age, it's really important to think about All Platform Design.

It's not enough anymore to just design a website that's meant to go into a desktop computer.

Instead you have to think about mobile as well.

So having a website that scales up nicely onto mobile, what we call Mobile Responsive, is really important.

You don't want a big website that's designed to take up a landscape kind of screen to be crammed into

a phone

that's actually more like a portrait shape.

This looks really bad.

It's very hard to read the individual links and, more often than not, my fingers are actually too big to tap

onto the length that I want.

So this is a really bad user experience.

Now this can happen the opposite way as well.

So a design that looks much better on mobile but then when it's rendered on a desktop with a wide kind

of screen, it doesn't use up enough of the screen real estate. For example,

this is the Facebook latest redesign of their website.

And you've got all of this empty space that's not being used at all and everything is crammed into the

middle.

This is not very efficient. So have a think about how you're using the available space and make sure

that your website rearranges itself when it's being rendered on a portrait smaller screen vs. a larger

desktop screen. And try to avoid one of my pet peeves in terms of design which is having so many banners

on your website that show up on the mobile version that your content becomes impossibly small.

And even when you're scrolling it's like you're scrolling it on an Apple Watch or something.

Whereas all of this extra content is taken up by warnings and banners and cookies and it's just not

a very good user experience.

But on the other hand, don't go crazy either,

don't make your entire website just one part like a picture or a piece of text scaling it up massively

like this is also very very awkward because then I have to just keep scrolling until forever before

I can actually read and take in all of the content.

So strike a happy medium,

and most importantly test, test, test.

Give it to other users.

You can employ professional testers to try out your website and give you feedback.

Now if you can't afford that, just use your family and friends. And bake some cookies for them,

get them to test out your website and start getting some feedback on how you can improve the design.

Now finally we've talked a lot about user experience and how to get people to have a good time.

Now some designers though use the knowledge they have about human psychology and User Interface and

User Experience design to do bad things.

And in the design world, we call these Dark Patterns. So patterns which get a user to perform an action

or behavior that is beneficial to the company or the designer

but it's not necessarily what the user wants.

And this I would say is another form of bad user experience.

So let me give you some examples.

This is a real life example. Let's say that you walked into Waitrose which is a big supermarket in the

UK and you bought yourself a sandwich.

Now when you look at it at the point when you're buying it, it looks like this sandwich is going to be

full length from edge to edge,

right?

But then when you rip open the packaging you're disappointed when you find that actually all that's

in the middle is just air, and your sandwich turns out to be a lot smaller than you initially thought.

It is the worst feeling in the world.

This is a feeling that I can't stand when my food suddenly gets reduced in size.

It's like as if somebody came along and took food out of your plate. In the digital world,

people do the same thing. The same kind of trickery that's meant to get you to perform an action that

you don't necessarily want and you end up feeling really disappointed and really upset. With Amazon every

single time

I have to re-click the free delivery button which I've earned by buying so much product from them.

But they still try to trick you using the things that we've learned about hierarchy

for example. Here the button that makes the more money, "Express Delivery" is highlighted in orange.

It pops out a lot more.

It's a lot more likely that you'll want to click on it.

But in all likelihood, you're probably happy with just normal delivery and you're now tricked into paying

more for this delivery.

Now here's another example

that's actually true the evil.

This is a Snapchat ad for some shoes.

But what the designer has cleverly done on the advertising is they've placed a one pixel curved line

on this ad which makes it kind of look a bit like a hair is on your screen. But when you go into that

screen and you try to get rid of that piece of hair, well you've tapped on it, haven't you?

So the ad takes you to the website and the advertisers make money off each click.

And this is truly a dark pattern because it's just tricking you to do something you didn't want to,

whereas good design is about helping people do what they want to do and giving them a good experience

while they're at it.

Now the king of dark patterns is Ryanair and it's a low-cost airline in Europe which is really known for

sort of charging you for every single little thing.

I wouldn't be surprised if tomorrow they suddenly charged you for using the toilet on the plane.

But here's what the website looks like when you try to buy an airplane ticket. In order to buy your

airplane ticket you have to go through all of these extra add ons including saying "No I don't want to

buy travel insurance." But look at how they've hidden it inside this big dropdown list and it's not even

at the beginning of the list.

It's actually sorted alphabetically below Denmark for some reason.

And this just makes it so much harder for you to find that option

and for you to actually accidentally end up buying travel insurance.

Now the final example and probably one of the dark patterns I dislike the most is these checkboxes. You

know right below you filled in a form,

you get these checkboxes and sometimes the wording is so confusing that I really don't know what I'm

signing up for.

Like this one: If you would like us to no longer continue to stop not sending you special deals and offers

every week, please indicate you are inclined to yes

by not checking the box. I have no idea what clicking that box does.

I really just... I don't know.

I might click it, I might not.

I don't know what it does. But it's horribly confusing and it's not a good user experience at all.

I will bet you that after I sign up I'm never going to come back to this website again,

right?

Are you with me? Now

we've seen what good websites look like,

we've seen what bad websites look like,

we've even seen what evil websites look like,

but it's time to put our knowledge to the test by designing our own website from scratch and applying

these four pillars of web design to this project.

So have a think about what you've learned so far and head over to the next lesson where we're going

to design a hotel website from scratch.